sometimes we get accused of being out of
touch so we're putting that to the test
today our Tech tipsters will go
head-to-head in an epic
showdown that's right using only their
knowledge they will build a
$1,000 PC that doesn't seem that hard
well there's a catch we need the highest
possible performance but we can't go
over budget and we're not allowed to
check the internet for pricing oh well
that is a lot harder then I guess the
pressure's on to tell you about our
sponsor ug green check out their cute
and compact Uno magnetic power bank it
features status emojis and up to 15
watts of wireless charging with a 36w
hour capacity check it out at the link
in the video
[Music]
description all right Lads the rules are
simple one build the best one ,000 PC
from anything on these shelves two no
help from the internet and three a few
other restrictions that I sent out
yesterday any questions don't care go I
think we go big GPU yeah 100% am4 am4
for sure I don't care about case just
something cheap and decent probably like
a Chinese brand big risk but I want to
go 7900x we going to way overshoot this
budet some of them are really cheap how
cheap like 500 bucks do we want to waste
money on CPU or just stock it 3 okay and
fractal
mesh each team has their plan and now
it's time to select all of our parts
we're going to do a snake draft order
starting with Team literal arson we have
45 seconds per part let's go okay go go
let's go go 7800 XT not the XTX well we
could go for a fancy with 7800 no we
need to go the cheapest shiest looking
one the gigabyte looks expensive I was
hoping for something that seems cheaper
looking we got to pick we got to pick
79 gr where next we next I don't know
try it two do this we got we have our
part okay do we want 12 or 13 12 might
be cheaper like we could do 12400 do we
have a 12400 oh [__] a lot of 13 6ks oh
my God we don't have any of the ones
that I'd want where are all the CPUs g g
is not as good not as good holy sh 13400
13100 they're going 79 doeses that make
they're going way over budget 77 uh 7900
7800 XT that's a maybe 77 that's 7700 XT
XT XT okay yeah we're good on that we're
good on that CPU CPU CPU I really would
rather go with this unless we want to go
Intel 3 4 okay
okay B 660 B 660 650 650 oh Jes oh Jesus
Christ oh and this said A1 oh
no no this is ITX oh God uh here this is
reasonable Asus no no this one this one
all right it's our turn go all
right
way all right yelling all right I'm
looking for motherboards am4 where the
freak is it right here do you think b450
Pro four good I think that's fine all
right that's probably 100 bucks okay
okay but we get to go again right yeah
okay basically all they have AMD wise
that's like reasonable right I really
don't know I think it'd be safer just to
go with like this yeah that is this one
that's probably the best choice yeah
we're going to go with the 5600 G 6900
XT or 7900 XT or 78 or 78 I think 78 78
is the one this looks like some pretty
awful stuff should we just go for it or
theam what let's do
[Music]
it I can't I have what I want I just
can't get it out what did you just
do what does this require it's pretty
chunk dude it's pretty chunk it is
pretty chunk oh my [__] we're screwed we
we're so
screwed now that the major components
have been selected we're going to round
out our systems with ram case power
supply Etc until we get to the most
important category Flex
item I need to find out if there's fans
that are included with this or not so
that we want to use our FX pick for fans
real quick oh God it's back no no fans
so get fans okay this looks good this
all work let's cheap RGB would be really
good it's going to be so expensive
though it's going to be really expensive
I want something silly alija we can have
this for
$10
done the parts have been selected our
Fates have been sealed now it's time to
build starting with Team arson for our
CPU we ended up going with the 5600 G
and I think we ran into the same issue a
lot of the other teams did which is when
they looked in the pile of AMD CPUs all
of them were already checked out either
to another project or Labs testing I
don't know how much these are worth now
I have literally no clue I want to say
15 bucks I put down 125 as my guess I'm
feeling a little bit sick to my stomach
the fact that the first component is
different than I thought it was I
thought we just got a regular 13100 but
this is a 13100 f f is just no Graphics
no Graphics that's fine so it's actually
better so it should be cheaper yeah
you'll save 10 bucks probably I think we
went a little overboard on the CPU we
went with a 13600 K cuz there was like
no we wanted a 5600 x yeah we panicked
yeah we panicked there's none and then
for motherboard we went with a Asus
Prime B6 60 plus which is one of the
cheapest LGA 1700 boards that we have in
stock we wanted to make sure that our
CPU runs at Boost clocks so maybe we can
win big in the CPU competition that
might push us over the edge yeah man
this motherboard looks very cheap Alex
exactly and that was one of the original
things with going with am4 plat oh my
gosh these yeah that's fine very
w we went with the ASRock b450 Pro 4 how
much do you think these are like I was
going to say like 70 maybe 90 that might
be pushing like a 100 13100 F and then
we got our z690 plus Wi-Fi D4
motherboard it is a much more expensive
board than I would have picked but we
didn't see any 660 ones left in terms of
our estimates we were thinking 13100 130
bucks z690 we said 170 it's probably
more I think I'm going to I'm going to
adjust estimate to 200 you think so yeah
which is a huge bummer for the
ram chose the one that was used in the
Shen build uh I don't actually know how
to pronounce it but it was blurred the
last time I pronounced it like this so G
ddr4 3200
MHz that's style points right there St
that's class if you ask me I think the
anime adds five bucks so we're going to
go 40 I think that's our estimate all
right cross our fingers with that one y
this whole
build please please please please
the only thing we know for sure is that
we are over
budget all right so we're just going
stock cooler here yeah which is nice 0 I
actually haven't installed these stock
coolers
before boy over here okay don't do that
this young does not know the ways of
the when you boot up a game oh I do my
computer still screams what kind of case
do we get we got a fantex eclipse G 360a
great case this is probably going to
come in around $100 yeah maybe one 10
tops we got the fantex eclipse p300 this
right here uh it that's quality it feels
kind of like junk but not in a way
that's like concerning it's not going to
hurt me which is like a plus I guess and
we have what seems like too nice of a
fan in the back I'm a bit concerned
about that next is our Flex item oh yeah
and Jordan I want you to take a closer
look at the box that you chose uh-oh did
I do a bad oh sh light
strips what hey I know I I 100% would
have made the same mistake I was fully
reading that as LS 120 assuming 12 mil
fans this box looks like a pack of three
fans this is not looking good for
Jordan while he's handling all the stuff
on the motherboard I'm going to be
getting the case prepped uh we got this
thermal take smart bm3 650 watt 80 plus
bronze I think we all had the same
strategy we went for thermal take
bronze is it just we all consider them
cheap I think so I think we were all
expecting them to be cheaper than a cic
or Corsair one thing that I did not
realize when I picked that GPU was that
it requires an 800 W power supply so we
went with what seemed like the worst 800
wat power supply but not so bad that it
would actually just not work what do you
think though 65 to 100 it's only 650
watt I think it's 100 tops uh $85 sure
it's 650 watt it's bronze yeah thermal
take uh they make some great products
but they not necessarily the power
supply like well that's not ther take
that's thermal right oh [__] you're
right we love them yeah we do love
thermal right the Phantom Spirit 120 SE
argb
$40 I'm going to say 50 you say 50 cuz
yeah it is the Phantom Spirit spirit's
newer just going to tighten my cooler
down with our LTT Screwdriver from LTT
store.com oh yeah yeah don't get screwed
be the one who does the screwing one
thing that I was thinking mhm uh as far
as I can tell there are no bonus points
for noise we should go full fan speed
on
everything I mean we can but like what's
the so just so it stays super cool oh
yeah it just like might net us a couple
FPS I man I'm getting kind of worried
that like we're going to be so far off
on budget and we're going to like really
I got less nervous when I saw Alex grab
the 7900 XT I was really hoping that we
would have like an XFX or a slightly
crappier 7900 XT cuz this right here
might be 900 bucks
you told you told me 600 it might
be so we're banking on 600 bucks that's
how much we think it's worth I'm saying
650 okay 650 for our GPU we picked a
good old 7700 XT we think it's going to
do just fine we didn't want to go
overboard on price uh what's 7700 XT 400
500 bucks 500 Buck got be 500 probably
550 Maybe so long yeah like the board is
done here the cooler is just massive oh
yeah no problem okay that's
good
Alex
Alex oh
God I was like hey let's go plug it in
like it's like it's like right no I
think you can get it I think you can get
it oh I okay we're going to need some
finagling here we're going to need some
finagling we almost had a budget time
for a saw
wait that means we probably have time to
go and Laser we're not laser etching the
glass panel Alex yes we are that's we
have millimet of
clearance I did not think about that at
all that GPU is
massive so not only did you potentially
screw us on price you almost screwed us
on actual space okay do you want to plug
it in plug it in get it posting yeah how
much time do we have 15 15 okay dude
we're not going to have time no we're
going to have time we haven't even post
tested we can post test over there you
can do that and worry about the cable
management I will make this art literal
art all right we're going to the
freaking 105 this a stupid
idea look I've had only bad ideas today
let's not stop okay nothing yet hold on
are the board diagnostics saying
anything do we have can't read it
there's a it's one of those lights that
has like four
options d
so it might be Memory training we'll
give it yeah give it a minute all right
we're coming over here really really
fast we have about 15 minutes I'm going
to try in that time to create us a
custom side pan now we don't have enough
time to do it as like a I don't even
remember what it's that called I just
need to get
going
uhoh good we're good
light turned off good hey
thatb
is Alex as pretty as your glass is it'd
be really cool if the computer turned
on it really would be wouldn't it yeah
we still have our dam light d light are
these dead David our ddr4 might be bad
uh I'm just going to hit start and hope
for the best yeah this might guarantee
that we totally do not win the style
points if it's only half done which is
really looking quite likely at the
moment Alex I need help getting the
computer booted though oh you do I I
literally cannot get it to boot uh what
yeah so I had it plugged in I know this
cable Works cuz it was powering the
monitor but I tried unplugging even the
front I/O to see if it was the button
but I touch the pins and it does not
doesn't go the lights are moving
something something's
happening you stop the at time yeah
trouble shoting yeah yeah cuz this I
don't think is our fault it seems like
it might just actually be a dead power
supply what the just happened
oh we're [__] we're
[__] it got most of the way through
too I have no clue why it did that oh
you know what happened tinan changed the
focal distance of this laser I have I
had the laser about as low of a power
and as fast as it could get but this is
the first time that we have ever etched
with this laser this is what I wanted to
be on the side panel just the sad Linus
on fire team literal
Iris I cannot believe that that side
panel exploded oh I can I totally can
it's almost like we said hey Alex we
only have 10 minutes left maybe we
shouldn't go for this I'm just going to
send it and see what happens I still
don't see any LEDs yeah there still is
nothing do we have a dead board kind of
really looking like it Alex what do you
think is more dead the motherboard of
the side
panel the motherboard we can still put
the shards of the side panel in
there we could save this but yeah our
motherboard's dead so I guess we'll have
to figure out what happens next this is
really unfortunate yeah okay right okay
uh power button 15 seconds Moment of
Truth yeah okay we got the RGB that's
good that's good on we got lights yellow
light Dr
Ram oh it's not going away what do you
mean it's sticking around we might of a
ram
issue
no as per the rules which you can see
here we are going to replace these
broken components with working ones and
get these computers all tuned up
computers are built Windows is installed
everything's ready to go it's time for
the teams to show off what they have
done there's our computer everyone do
you like our decoration we got some for
free uh and we did pay $10 for this hypn
frog so tell us what happened to your
side panel Alex decided to tried to
laser etch the glass oh my God and he we
didn't have the laser dialed in and all
of a sudden we heard a shatter so while
while you were building a PC he just
went to the shop to no no we built the
PC and we were so confident it was
working we were like let's go laser ET
it then it didn't boot cuz the
motherboard was dead and then the glass
panel shattered all in 5 minutes
actually the motherboard wasn't dead we
had the ryzen 5600 G from that random
Lenovo desktop that is that has a fuse
in it that locks it from going in
another
totally forgot about that we have a
whole video on that and you can plug in
another ryzen ship into that Lenova
board and it will lock that as well I'm
pretty sure that's wild it's crazy we
have another 5600 G but because we
couldn't figure it out we have a
different motherboard that David
selected for us got it it's equiv value
you'll still be uh scored at the
original price got it and motherboards
aren't super important for performance
so we've kind of gone a little bit
looser on that and now that he's laid
that out this helped us a a lot it turns
out that we screwed up and accidentally
got a PCI gen 3 board this one is Gen
let's go he got it so we have resizable
bar enabled we have we have the GPU
running at full thing this is really
good that would have been a huge St and
I see you went with the 7900 XT which is
not a mid-range card what uh what was
the impetus for that card this was an
executive decision by
Alex there somebody's m is uny in a
$1,000 build I would not recommend this
GPU normally but you can get them on
sale we're hoping one's on sale right
now we estimated this computer costing
$1,115 what that's again hoping the GPU
is on sale the actual price not bad not
bad okay it's not bad
$1,249 27 the GPU was $700 and your
original motherboard trait really saved
you was 100 bucks we're going to have a
24.9% penalty Team B me had trouble from
the beginning uh we ended up making a
rush decision in getting a 13100 F I was
looking for like a 12400 or a 13400
something a lot more balanced but still
really low price tough gaming
motherboard eh okay yeah yeah so the
next problem we were you know locked
into our ecosystem based on our CPU
choice and I was looking for a b660
board and I couldn't find them in 45
seconds we took one so we ended up with
a z690 board oh our total system guess
is 1205 okay what's the price what's the
price so we were pretty spoton on our
guest our big factor was a
$270 fcking motherboard oh my goodness W
27 so that gen last gen motherb that's
basically our entire overage compared to
that one $170 difference on a GD mother
you got a nice case though how much was
the case it was $70 what godamn it's a
pretty computer though I like it tell
them what we picked Adam oh team DDR 420
we picked a 13600 K which was um a panic
decision uh we had 5 seconds and we
grabbed a 13600 K which is probably
going to be the thing that hurts us the
most in terms of budget absolutely it's
a great CPU except for maybe the um uh
voltage issues this only has to run for
2 hours so who cares um which also
explains our power supply selection we
chose a thermal literally the exact same
thermal take smart line as everyone else
who cares it only needs to be on for 2
hours another downside to our CPU pick
was that we had to get a cooler unlike
the other two teams who had included
coolers with their CPUs I will say as a
note to that the cooler that they used
is not the included one for the 5600 G
we're not going to dock points because
it's RGB and it's way cooler but it
would come with just the stealth with
this which is a black one but will it
cool down our
price let's see you had the highest yes
we were very cynical even with the
lowest GPU we guessed at least $350 for
our CPU and we came in wow wow nice
$1,092 wow turns out we have no idea how
much stuff costs but um we always air on
the side of of expensive so that's good
we kind of know what it costs we were
trying to build $1,000 PC we came out
around $1,100 I think that's pretty they
got a little bit lucky the 13600 K just
happens to be on sale good job you guys
so that's good you guys are the closest
to the Thousand for sure that's going to
be a big help
ooh okay there's no way that plof would
not use an aftermarket cooler that's
ploofs oh he's right he knows his stuff
I'm a little bit scared at how well L
knows
us we were so spot on we took a break
for the weekend and I've run some of the
benchmarks beforehand but we're going to
run our last one on camera so get to
your freaking
stations 3 two one go
I started first I win the best part
about not having a side panel I can add
extra cooling it only helps if it's over
why showing them as winning cuz we have
a better system duh they're not they
drop like crazy yeah we're good oh yeah
okay GG easy wow killed them yeah I'm so
surprised that 77 to 79 is way bigger of
a difference in this game than I
expected yeah they're looking like 40%
how do they have the fastest CPU score
that's a very good question there's like
wonkiness with some of the results like
they have this massive drop in fps in
the middle of the Benchmark this is why
like when Labs is doing testing we run
things multiple times to make sure that
any weird outliers are dealt with
whereas this is just have fun with
friends run some benchmarks see who does
better but oh well we've run the
benchmarks and I am shocked at the
results in third place is team three
with 535 out of 700 in second place is
team two with 582 out of 700 and in
first place is team one with
639 out of 700 that's a really high
catch we'll get they only have 60 points
on the table however with a penalty that
cost them 24.9% of their performance
their final score puts them in second
place and the winner
is no way let's go
wow we haven't talked about the
pineapple for good taste
what oh you obviously not
that it's you
guys four out of the six
votes yeah that means that they took a
very clean Victory not only did they win
after price performance adjustment but
they got the best looking system hang on
hang on hang on we got to deduct a point
there a scratch in the glass whoa whoa
whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa they also were
the closest to an actual $1,000 Mark
true which was really awesome tell me
how it feels to win well David it feels
great you know we played a good game we
played a hard game the other guys are
out there you know they're giving their
all every single night and like we're
out there you know and sometimes you
take got to take the win do the good
with the bad got to just you know give
it 110% yeah just like I'm going to give
you 110% for the segue to our sponsor ug
green their Uno magnetic power bank has
attitude but in a cute way it shows you
the charging status with adorable emojis
like a little sidekick keeping you
powered up on the go it packs a beefy
36w hour battery and 15 W wireless
charging allowing it to juice up an
iPhone 16 Pro one and a half times
according to ug Green's testing plus it
even has a built-in stand so it doubles
as a charger for your desk cool right or
if you're on the go you can just slip it
into your pocket and it's not just about
the power bank ug Green's Uno series
also includes Chargers cables and more
giving you a bunch of fun and fast
charging options check out the ug green
Uno magnetic powerbank using the link in
the video description if you like
competition videos like this please give
this a thumbs up you want to do more
like this this is super fun uh and if
you want to what's a video that would be
good to call out cardboard PC oh yeah oh
no don't call that out don't call that
out awful what everyone loves cardboard
PC I didn't go see cardboard PC